hi I'm Archana welcome to my kitchen
in today's recipe I'm going to show you
how to make masala dosas that is a very
classic South Indian dish in this dish
boil potatoes a spice with ginger green
chillies and curry leaves and filled
into a rice and lentil CREP called those
odds without wasting no time let's dive
right in to see how to make this simple
and delicious South Indian dish
now we'll begin making the masala for
the masala dosas using the potatoes to
begin with add in just a teaspoon of oil
again I try to use as less oil as
possible and once the oil is heated I'm
going to heat the pan once the oil is
heated add in some mustard seeds and
this is haft would have done these our
lentils that add delicious flavors to
the masala dosa again I'm not going to
be using onions because I'm showing you
how to cook at the South quick way but
you could optionally add onions as well
okay the dal is well browned just
browned enough at this stage I'm going
to grate in an inch piece of ginger and
I have one green chilli that I've
chopped up here and some curry leaves
that I've chopped too chopping and
tearing the curry leaves gives added
flavor to the masala as opposed to
having adding it as a whole leaf and now
I'm going to add in the potatoes have
chopped up the boiled potatoes
stir it in so that the potatoes get well
coated with the seasoning next the
turmeric powder I don't add the turmeric
powder to the oil because it could tend
to burn then the salt and give it a stir
now this looks more like a vegetable
because you see the potatoes are chopped
and doesn't really look like a masala
that you find or eat normally so what
I'm going to do is use the potato masher
just give the potatoes a gentle mash you
don't want it to become a lump or the
dough but you just want them to be
mashed a little bit so this is a good
technique to mash up your potatoes and
give the masala dosa masala good texture
that's it
the masala dosa is now ready what I'm
now going to do is to chop up some
coriander leaves and add it to this to
give an added flavor to the masala dosa
smelling delicious I can't wait to make
the dosas and have this with some
coconut chutney so now we'll proceed to
make the dosas for the masala dosa so
now I'm going to take a ladder full of
batter put it in the center and and
spread it evenly around
you could either use oil or you could go
use ghee to cook your dosas and I'm just
gonna add in a little bit of key because
masala dosas and gr a great combination
and yes G is sattvic too according to
the Ayurvedic diet you can optionally
cover the dough cells where the lid and
allow the steam to cook the doses or you
can cook it open when you do cook it
open you will find the tops a little bit
raw and I will show you a technique how
to remove the rawness from the top after
about a couple of less than a minute you
will start finding brown spots on the
dozer and that's when you know it's
ready and now if you did not use a lid
to cover the pan the stick of flat
spatula and spread the raw batter around
like this
and that's what most restaurant people
do so what I'm going to do now it's
perfectly steamed hand see how
beautifully it comes out of the pan
because the pan is well-seasoned and now
if you are using a nonstick pan you
don't have to worry at all so now I'm
going to use you can either serve the
masala separately with the dosa but as
always we do place a large ladle of the
masala in it towards the center and what
I'm going to do is to do a double fold
hold it
press it down a little bit and your
Wragge Multi millet multigrain masala
dosa is now ready a lot of times you
have to make sambar chutney and the
extra paraphernalia to have masala dosas
but at home we have it with idli milega
puddi and some yogurt it's as simple as
that and we just simply love it with
this do do give the super simple recipe
a try in your kitchen and when you do
don't forget to give feedback in the
comments below and how you twist it and
modify this recipe until then until next
time happy cooking and healthy eating